---
title: "My Second Algo - Blog Post 1"
date: 2025-01-13T22:42:35+02:00
draft: true
toc: false
images:
tags:
  - untagged
---



2025 marks the first year that I am confident enough in my abilities to deploy fully automated algorithmic trading strategies. Having started demo trading at age 15, and real money trading shortly after my 18th birthday, it has taken quite some time to get to this point! I am writing this blog to catalogue my progress, keep myself accountable, and engage with other traders.

I found various systems over the years, which yielded mixed results. While the results of some systems were in line with expectation, others were significantly underperforming. Unfortunately I misdiagnosed this underperformance until 3 years ago when I first learned how to construct custom backtests. Manual trading allows for human error due to the possibility of using individual discretion outside of the system, to which I had initially attributed most of my underperformance.

I have developed 2 algorithms so far, and they are currently deployed to a small account to verify the function of the code, and it’s coverage of edge cases. The second of these algorithms is surprisingly simple, while achieving an average backtested sharpe ratio of greater than 2, and 96% probability of the selected permutation being profitable, across the full range of relevant parameters. The algorithm is based on principles underlying the opening range breakout strategy, and is roughly as follows:

1) Find the price range for the instrument between hour W and hour X.
2) At hour X, place a stop-buy order above the range and a stop sell order below, with both orders valid until hour Y.
3) If either order is triggered prior to hour Y, close the remaining order.
4) Close remaining positions at hour Z.

The algorithm also uses volatility normalised position sizing and limit targets in order to standardise trades. I have omitted the selected instrument, parameters, and risk management procedures because they can differ significantly between traders depending on their risk appetite and desired returns profile.

Subsequent blog posts will be more linear, exploring a single subject. The next post will be an explanation of my primary guiding principle - Returns ∝ 1/Discretion

Keep it non-discretionary,  
JZ

Note: THIS BLOG POST IS NOT FINANCIAL ADVICE. All information contained in this blog post is solely for the purpose of documenting my progress, and MUST NOT be used as part of ANY investment decision. Short-term trading - algorithmically or otherwise - carries tremendous risk and the large majority of retail participants lose money. Please consult a qualified financial advisor if you require any further clarification.
